DOC Create unified release policy (#788)
silverstripe/developer-docs: en/12_Project_Governance/05_Release_policy.md

### Pre-release definitions

- **Alpha**: A pre-release that may be performed prior to a "beta" pre-release. Its purpose is to allow for early exploration and feedback on foundational changes, new architectural approaches, or significant new features
- **Beta**: A pre-release which is performed prior to a "RC" pre-release. Its purpose is to facilitate testing and feedback, allow early adopters to plan their upgrade, to identify bugs, and to help community modules dependent on Silverstripe CMS to upgrade ahead of the stable release
- **Release candidate (aka RC)**: A pre-release that is performed prior to a stable release. A copy of the release candidate (which also includes any undisclosed security patches) will be sent to an external auditor for a security review. This pre-release should be very similar to the final stable release and is a last chance to find any regressions before then.

## Types of Silverstripe CMS releases

Regular Silverstripe CMS releases are performed at predefined intervals with a clear support timeline. This allows Silverstripe CMS project owners to plan upgrades ahead of time.

> [!NOTE]

> > The cadence and pre-release timeframes are indicative only. We may alter those in response to external constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The cadence and pre-release timeframes below are indicative only. We may alter these in response to external constraints.
```
From Jenn's review

Author: Updated

>
> While each Silverstripe CMS release usually only gets one of each type of pre-stable release, additional pre-stable releases may be performed if required.

### Silverstripe CMS major release

A new Silverstripe CMS major version series (e.g. "CMS 6") is introduced by its first Silverstripe CMS release (e.g. "CMS 6.0.0").

The main purpose of a major release is to deliver significant architectural updates and changes that are not backward compatible, including updates to third-party dependencies. This ensures the Silverstripe CMS major version series can be supported for its full lifecycle.

At launch, new Silverstripe CMS major versions may contain new features not present in the previous major version series. However, shipping new features is a secondary concern, as new features will usually ship in minor releases.

- **Backward compatibility:** No - projects will require some development work to upgrade to a new major release
- **Cadence:** Every two years, between April and June
- **Pre-release schedule:**
  - **Alpha**: At the discretion of the development team

>   - **Beta**: At least 3 months prior to the anticipated stable release. At this point, dependencies should not change, and substantial breaking changes should be avoided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Beta**: At least 3 months prior to the anticipated stable release. At this point, dependencies should not change, and substantial breaking changes should be avoided
```

Author: Updated

Reviewer: Wasn't done? This is specifically to remove the period at the end of the sentence for "beta" in the list.

Author: Updated

>   - **Beta**: At least 3 months prior to the anticipated stable release. At this point, dependencies should not change, and substantial breaking changes should be avoided.
>   - **RC**: Approximately 4 weeks prior to the anticipated stable release. At this point, no more breaking changes can be made unless they are to fix a regression

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Beta**: At least 3 months prior to the anticipated stable release. After this point, dependencies should not change, and substantial breaking changes should be avoided.
  - **RC**: Approximately 4 weeks prior to the anticipated stable release. After this point, no more breaking changes can be made unless they are to fix a regression
```

Author: Updated

- **Documentation:** A changelog is published listing significant new features and breaking changes. A [clear upgrade path](/upgrading) is available

### Silverstripe CMS minor release

A Silverstripe CMS minor release is the standard recurring release of Silverstripe CMS (e.g. "CMS 6.1.0", "CMS 6.2.0"). Minor release upgrades are generally more straightforward to manage than major release upgrades.

The main purpose of a minor release is to ship new features and enhancements.

- **Backward compatibility:** Yes - within their Silverstripe CMS major version series
- **Cadence:** Every six months within the most recent stable Silverstripe CMS major version series. Minor releases are targeted for April and October each year
- **Pre-release schedule:**
  - **Alpha**: Typically not performed

>   - **RC**: Approximately 2 weeks prior to the stable release. At this point, only bug fixes should be added

Reviewer: Oops! Looks like you deleted the beta.
> - **Beta**: Approximately 6 weeks prior to the anticipated stable release. At this point, no new features or new public API should be added

>   - **Beta**: Approximately 6 weeks prior to the anticipated stable release. At this point, no new features or new public API should be added
>   - **RC**: Approximately 2 weeks prior to the stable release. At this point, only bug fixes should be added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Beta**: Approximately 6 weeks prior to the anticipated stable release. After this point, no new features or new public API should be added
  - **RC**: Approximately 2 weeks prior to the stable release. After this point, only bug fixes should be added
```

Author: Updated

- **Documentation:** A changelog is published listing significant new features

## Support lifecycle

> > [!INFO]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
```
Looking at the rendered copy, `INFO` isn't valid. According to https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/6/contributing/documentation/#callout-blocks our "info" callout block should use `[!NOTE]`

We should probably rename that to a "note" callout block lol

Author: Updated

> For a detailed timeline of current and planned support durations for each Silverstripe CMS version, refer to the [support timeline](https://www.silverstripe.org/software/roadmap#support-timeline).

A clear support lifecycle for each Silverstripe CMS version is defined. This provides long-term stability and planning for users.

At any given time, only two major version series are officially supported. For example, CMS 5.4, CMS 6.0, and CMS 6.1 can all be supported at once as they span a total of two major version series, however, CMS 5.4, CMS 6.0, and CMS 7.0 cannot all be supported at once.

> Each Silverstripe CMS version has a *standard* support length, except for the last minor version of a Silverstripe CMS major version series, which has an  *extended* support length, e.g. CMS 5.4 has extended support. Details about how this affects release timelines is detailed further below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Silverstripe CMS version has a *standard* support length, except for the last minor version of a Silverstripe CMS major version series, which has an *extended* support length, e.g. CMS 5.4 has extended support. Details about how this affects release timelines are detailed below.
```

Author: Updated

Support commitments for security and bug fixes are met through patch releases on individual supported modules and are detailed further in a section below.

Each Silverstripe CMS version progresses through three defined support phases.

### Full support

A Silverstripe CMS version enters the *full support* phase after the corresponding release has been performed.

- **Security fixes:** Yes – security vulnerabilities at all impact levels are addressed
- **Bug fixes:** Yes - provided they do not change existing public API
- **New features:** No
- **Enhancements:** Allowed
- **Support length:**

  - **Standard:** Approximately 6 months, until the next minor release is performed
  - **Extended:** One year

### Partial support

At the end of the *full support* phase, a Silverstripe CMS version transitions to the *partial support* phase.

- **Security fixes:** Partial – only high and critical impact security vulnerabilities (those with a CVSS score of 7.0 or above) are addressed
- **Bug fixes:** No
- **New features:** No
- **Enhancements:** No
- **Support length:**

  - **Standard:** 6 months

>   - **Extended:** Approximately one year, extending until the following subsequent major release (e.g. CMS 5.4 will remain in partial support until CMS 7.0 is released)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Extended:** Approximately one year, extending until two subsequent major versions have been released (e.g. CMS 5.4 will remain in partial support until CMS 7.0 is released)
```
Just makes this a little clearer

Reviewer: Could also be "until two subsequent major releases have been performed" which has the same effect but keeps "release" as the main trigger instead of "released version"

Author: Updated

Support for end-of-life PHP releases is not dropped within a Silverstripe CMS major version series, unless it's necessary to address vulnerabilities or high impact bugs.

Silverstripe CMS major version series which will not have new minor releases do not receive official support for later PHP releases.

## Dependency management

At launch, Silverstripe CMS major releases aim to have all PHP and JavaScript dependencies on their latest stable versions. For dependencies offering a long term support (LTS) version, the latest LTS of that dependency is preferred.

A list of *fixed dependencies* for each Silverstripe CMS major version series is explicitly defined by the development team. Fixed dependencies do not change for the lifetime of a Silverstripe CMS major version series.

See [fixed dependencies](/project_governance/fixed_dependencies/) for the current list of fixed dependencies.

> Support for newer major versions of fixed dependencies is not added to a Silverstripe CMS major version series, even if the currently used version is end-of-life. A Silverstripe CMS major version series only supports one major version each fixed dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support for newer major versions of fixed dependencies is not added to a Silverstripe CMS major version series, even if the currently used version is end-of-life. A Silverstripe CMS major version series only supports one major version of each fixed dependency.
```

Author: Updated
